---
title: What Impact Might Sora Have?
author: Sat Naing
pubDatetime: 2023-07-21T10:11:06.130Z
modDatetime: 2024-01-03T14:53:25Z
slug: Sora-Impact
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - FAQ
description:  In the future, the various-purpose videos generated by Sora will have a profound impact on industries such as short videos, live broadcasting, film and television, animation, and advertising.
---

In the future, AI-driven content creation will profoundly impact various industries, particularly in the realm of "timeliness coverage" of hot topics, where the efficiency of AIGC will become a key competitive factor. The competition will primarily focus on who can more effectively harness AI capabilities, especially powerful AI production tools like Sora. It may soon be possible to achieve scenarios like "throwing in a novel and producing a blockbuster," as Sora has already demonstrated its ability to generate videos up to 1 minute long, including single-shot sequences, multi-angle transitions, and other diverse features. Its videos can utilize elements such as scenery, expressions, and colors to convey various emotional tones, such as loneliness, prosperity, and innocence.

The application of multimodal models is also expected to peak in 2024, profoundly affecting industries such as film and television, live broadcasting, media, advertising, animation, and art design. In the current era of short videos, Sora can already handle tasks such as shooting, directing, and editing short videos. In the future, the various-purpose videos generated by Sora will have a profound impact on industries such as short videos, live broadcasting, film and television, animation, and advertising.

In the field of short video creation, Sora is expected to reduce the overall production costs of short dramas and address the issue of "heavy production but light creation." This will shift the focus of short drama production back to high-quality script content creation, placing higher demands on creators' conceptual abilities. To reduce costs and increase efficiency, advertising production companies can use Sora to generate advertising videos that meet brand requirements, significantly reducing shooting and post-production costs. Game and animation companies can also utilize Sora to directly generate game scenes and character animations, reducing the costs of 3D modeling and animation production. With the cost savings, businesses can improve the quality of products and services or engage in technological innovation, further enhancing productivity.

If 2023 was the year of the global explosion of AI models and the emergence of text-to-image generation, then 2024 will herald the year of AI video generation and multimodal large models. From ChatGPT to Sora, AI is gradually changing the reality of every individual and every industry, accelerating the realization of AGI.







